Add Server GraphQL to `site` (#3887)
line/armeria: site/src/pages/docs/server-graphql.mdx

                                                  "3", new User("3", "droid"));

    @Override
    public User get(DataFetchingEnvironment environment) throws Exception {
        final String id = environment.getArgument("id");
        return data.get(id);
    }
}
```

<Tip>

Please note that this is entirely based on [graphql-java](https://www.graphql-java.com/).

</Tip>

## `GraphqlService`

Once you've finished the implementation of the [DataFetcher](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/DataFetcher.html), you need to build a <type://GraphqlService> using
a <type://GraphqlServiceBuilder> and add it to the <type://ServerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service("/graphql",
           GraphqlService.builder()
                         .runtimeWiring(c -> {
                            c.type("Query",
                                   typeWiring -> typeWiring.dataFetcher("user", new UserDataFetcher()));
                         })
                         .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```

> Here [RuntimeWiring](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/idl/RuntimeWiring.html) is a specification of [DataFetcher](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/DataFetcher.html)s, [TypeResolver](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/TypeResolver.html)s, and custom [scalar](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/GraphQLScalarType.html)s that are needed to wire together a functional [GraphQLSchema](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/GraphQLSchema.html).

Reviewer: How about:
We used [RuntimeWiring](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/idl/RuntimeWiring.html) to wire the type with DataFetcher. Please see [...](https://www.graphql-java.com/documentation/master/schema/#creating-a-schema-using-the-sdl) to find more wiring examples.

## Blocking service implementation

Armeria does not run service logic in a separate thread pool by default. If your service implementation

> requires blocking, either run the individual blocking logic in a thread pool, set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requires blocking, either run the individual blocking logic in a thread pool, or set
```

> <type://GraphqlServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> so the above happens automatically for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<type://GraphqlServiceBuilder#useBlockingTaskExecutor(boolean)> to `true` so the service runs in
the <type://CommonPools#blockingTaskExecutor()>.
```

all service methods and lifecycle callbacks.

```java
ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
sb.service("/graphql",
           GraphqlService.builder()
                         .runtimeWiring(c -> {
                            c.type("Query",
                                   typeWiring -> typeWiring.dataFetcher("user", new UserDataFetcher()));
                         })
                         // All service methods will be run within
                         // the blocking executor.
                         .useBlockingTaskExecutor(true)
                         .build());
```

<Tip>

> Another way is to wrap the [DataFetcher](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/DataFetcher.html) in an [AsyncDataFetcher](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/AsyncDataFetcher.html).

Reviewer: How about:
You can wrap a DataFetcher using AsyncDataFetcher] to run it asynchronously.

</Tip>

Let's assume we have the following [GraphQL Schema](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/):

```graphql
type Query {
  user(id: ID): User
}

type User {
  id: ID
  name: String
}
```

The schema describes that if a client requests a `User` data using the `ID` field, the GraphQL server will
return the `User` data. The GraphQL engine uses a [DataFetcher](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/DataFetcher.html)
to resolve the ID and fetch the corresponding object. For the sake of simplicity, let's implement
`UserDataFetcher` that stores `User`s in a `Map`:

```java
import graphql.schema.DataFetcher;
import graphql.schema.DataFetchingEnvironment;

class UserDataFetcher implements DataFetcher<User> {

    private final Map<String, User> data = Map.of("1", new User("1", "hero"),
                                                  "2", new User("2", "human"),
                                                  "3", new User("3", "droid"));

    @Override
    public User get(DataFetchingEnvironment environment) throws Exception {
        final String id = environment.getArgument("id");
        return data.get(id);
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Could you add the dependency section for `armeria-graphql`? For example:
https://github.com/line/armeria/blob/14078714659814a8d34cc9fbca15ee011524c4dc/site/src/pages/docs/advanced-zipkin.mdx#L9-L16

Author: Added again 🤣

<Tip>

Please note that this is entirely based on [graphql-java](https://www.graphql-java.com/).

</Tip>

## `GraphqlService`

Once you've finished the implementation of the [DataFetcher](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/DataFetcher.html), you need to build a <type://GraphqlService> using
a <type://GraphqlServiceBuilder> and add it to the <type://ServerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.graphql.GraphqlService;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service("/graphql",
           GraphqlService.builder()
                         .runtimeWiring(c -> {
                            c.type("Query",
                                   typeWiring -> typeWiring.dataFetcher("user", new UserDataFetcher()));
                         })
                         .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```

> We used [RuntimeWiring](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/idl/RuntimeWiring.html) to wire the type with DataFetcher. Please see [...](https://www.graphql-java.com/documentation/master/schema/#creating-a-schema-using-the-sdl) to find more wiring examples.

Reviewer 2: Is `[...]` cruft or intentionally added? A proper link text would be good to me.

Reviewer: Oops, it should be `[Creating a schema using the SDL]` 😅

Author: Fixed 🤣

# Running a GraphQL service

<Tip>

Visit [armeria-examples](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples) to find a fully working example.

</Tip>

Let's assume we have the following [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) service definition:

```graphql
type Query {
  user(id: ID): User
}

type User {
  id: ID
  name: String
}
```

Armeria provides a way to write an HTTP service using the GraphQL like this.

## `DataFetcher`
And to fetch the data you need an implementation like this:

```java
import graphql.schema.DataFetcher;
import graphql.schema.DataFetchingEnvironment;

class UserDataFetcher implements DataFetcher<User> {

    private final Map<String, User> data = Map.of("1", new User("1", "hero"),
                                                  "2", new User("2", "human"),
                                                  "3", new User("3", "droid"));

    @Override
    public User get(DataFetchingEnvironment environment) throws Exception {
        final String id = environment.getArgument("id");
        return data.get(id);
    }
}
```
<Tip>

Please note that this is entirely based on [graphql-java](https://www.graphql-java.com/).

> </Tip>

Reviewer 2: Could we add simple explanations for schema and DataFetcher?

---

[GraphQL Java]((https://www.graphql-java.com/) is the Java (server) implementation for GraphQL.
This documentation shows how to serve a GraphQL Java over HTTP.
The main steps for creating a GraphQL service are:
1. Defining a GraphQL schema.
2. Implement how the actual data for a query is fetched.
3. Bind the scheme and data fetchers with `GraphqlService`.

## Defining Schema

A schema which defines each field that can be queried or mutated and what types those fields are.
This schema defines one top level field (in the type Query): which returns the details of a User.
```graphql
type Query {
  user(id: ID): User
}

type User {
  id: ID
  name: String
}
```

## Loading Data
A `DataFetcher` fetches data for one field while the query is executed.
The `UserDataFetcher` retrieves a user with a specific ID from a static map. This is made just for testing.
```
class UserDataFetcher implements DataFetcher<User> {
    ...
}
```

## Building `GraphqlService`

...

Author: I've added it mixed up with what I've written. 👍👍

Author: ![localhost_8000_docs_server-graphql](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22594101/140028967-da5ed8fb-80fd-46b9-853d-b133520fae4e.png)

# Running a GraphQL service

<Tip>

Visit [armeria-examples](https://github.com/line/armeria-examples) to find a fully working example.

</Tip>

First, You need the `armeria-graphql` dependency:

<RequiredDependencies
  boms={[{ groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-bom' }]}
  dependencies={[
    { groupId: 'com.linecorp.armeria', artifactId: 'armeria-graphql' },
  ]}
/>

<Tip>

Please note that this is entirely based on [graphql-java](https://www.graphql-java.com/).

</Tip>

- [GraphQL Java](https://www.graphql-java.com/) is the Java (server) implementation for GraphQL.
- This documentation shows how to serve a service made from GraphQL Java over HTTP.
- The main steps for creating a GraphQL service are:

## Defining schema

A schema which defines each field that can be queried or mutated and what types those fields are.
This schema defines one top level field (in the type Query): which returns the details of a User.

> ```graphql

Reviewer: How about?

Let's assume we have the following [GraphQL Schema](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/):

```graphql
type Query {
  user(id: ID): User
}

type User {
  id: ID
  name: String
}
```

The schema describes that if a client requests a `User` data using the `ID` field, the GraphQL server will
return the `User` data. The GraphQL engine uses a [DataFetcher](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.graphql-java/graphql-java/latest/graphql/schema/DataFetcher.html)
to resolve the `ID` and fetch the corresponding object. For the sake of simplicity, let's implement
`UserDataFetcher` that stores `User` data in a `Map`:

```java
import graphql.schema.DataFetcher;
import graphql.schema.DataFetchingEnvironment;

class UserDataFetcher implements DataFetcher<User> {

    private final Map<String, User> data = Map.of("1", new User("1", "hero"),
                                                  "2", new User("2", "human"),
                                                  "3", new User("3", "droid"));

    @Override
    public User get(DataFetchingEnvironment environment) throws Exception {
        final String id = environment.getArgument("id");
        return data.get(id);
    }
}
```

## `GraphqlService`
Once you've finished the implementation of the `DataFetcher`, you need to build a <type://GraphqlService> using
a <type://GraphqlServiceBuilder> and add it to the <type://ServerBuilder>:

```java
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.Server;
import com.linecorp.armeria.server.ServerBuilder;

ServerBuilder sb = Server.builder();
...
sb.service("/graphql",
           GraphqlService.builder()
                         .runtimeWiring(c -> {
                            c.type("Query",
                                   typeWiring -> typeWiring.dataFetcher("user", new UserDataFetcher()));
                         })
                         .build());
...
Server server = sb.build();
server.start();
```

// explanation about runtimeWiring

## Blocking service implementation

...

Reviewer: @freevie you might want to take a look at this PR. 😄

Author: I'm sorry for being late. 😅 I fixed
